\input texinfo
@setfilename parcat.info

@documentencoding utf-8

@settitle parcat - cat files or fifos in parallel

@node Top
@top parcat

@menu
* NAME::
* SYNOPSIS::
* DESCRIPTION::
* OPTIONS::
* EXAMPLES::
* REPORTING BUGS::
* AUTHOR::
* LICENSE::
* DEPENDENCIES::
* SEE ALSO::
@end menu

@node NAME
@chapter NAME

parcat - cat files or fifos in parallel

@node SYNOPSIS
@chapter SYNOPSIS

@strong{parcat} [--rm] [-#] file(s) [-#] file(s)

@node DESCRIPTION
@chapter DESCRIPTION

GNU @strong{parcat} reads files or fifos in parallel. It writes full lines
so there will be no problem with mixed-half-lines which you risk if
you use:

@verbatim
   (cat file1 & cat file2 &) | ...
@end verbatim

Arguments can be given on the command line or passed in on stdin
(standard input).

@node OPTIONS
@chapter OPTIONS

@table @asis
@item -@strong{#}
@anchor{-@strong{#}}

Arguments following this will be sent to the file descriptor @strong{#}. E.g.

@verbatim
  parcat -1 stdout1 stdout2 -2 stderr1 stderr2
@end verbatim

will send @emph{stdout1} and @emph{stdout2} to stdout (standard output = file
descriptor 1), and send @emph{stderr1} and @emph{stderr2} to stderr (standard
error = file descriptor 2).

@item --rm
@anchor{--rm}

Remove files after opening. As soon as the files are opened, unlink
the files.

@end table

@node EXAMPLES
@chapter EXAMPLES

@menu
* Simple line buffered output::
@end menu

@node Simple line buffered output
@section Simple line buffered output

GNU Parallel saves output to tempfiles. If the amount of data is
bigger than the free disk space, then you can use this technique to do
line buffering without saving to disk:

@verbatim
  mkfifo slot-{1..5}
  seq 10000000 | parallel -j5 --round --pipe 'cat > slot-{%}' &
  parcat slot-{1..5} | wc
@end verbatim

@node REPORTING BUGS
@chapter REPORTING BUGS

GNU @strong{parcat} is part of GNU @strong{parallel}. Report bugs to
<bug-parallel@@gnu.org>.

@node AUTHOR
@chapter AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2016,2017,2018 Ole Tange, http://ole.tange.dk and Free
Software Foundation, Inc.

@node LICENSE
@chapter LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2007,2008,2009,2010,2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
at your option any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@menu
* Documentation license I::
* Documentation license II::
@end menu

@node Documentation license I
@section Documentation license I

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this documentation
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the file fdl.txt.

@node Documentation license II
@section Documentation license II

You are free:

@table @asis
@item @strong{to Share}
@anchor{@strong{to Share}}

to copy, distribute and transmit the work

@item @strong{to Remix}
@anchor{@strong{to Remix}}

to adapt the work

@end table

Under the following conditions:

@table @asis
@item @strong{Attribution}
@anchor{@strong{Attribution}}

You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or
licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or
your use of the work).

@item @strong{Share Alike}
@anchor{@strong{Share Alike}}

If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute
the resulting work only under the same, similar or a compatible
license.

@end table

With the understanding that:

@table @asis
@item @strong{Waiver}
@anchor{@strong{Waiver}}

Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission from
the copyright holder.

@item @strong{Public Domain}
@anchor{@strong{Public Domain}}

Where the work or any of its elements is in the public domain under
applicable law, that status is in no way affected by the license.

@item @strong{Other Rights}
@anchor{@strong{Other Rights}}

In no way are any of the following rights affected by the license:

@itemize
@item Your fair dealing or fair use rights, or other applicable
copyright exceptions and limitations;

@item The author's moral rights;

@item Rights other persons may have either in the work itself or in
how the work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights.

@end itemize

@item @strong{Notice}
@anchor{@strong{Notice}}

For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the
license terms of this work.

@end table

A copy of the full license is included in the file as cc-by-sa.txt.

@node DEPENDENCIES
@chapter DEPENDENCIES

GNU @strong{parcat} uses Perl.

@node SEE ALSO
@chapter SEE ALSO

@strong{cat}(1), @strong{parallel}(1)

@bye
